Proceedings of Machine Learning Research 133:302–324, 2021 NeurIPS 2020 Competition and Demonstration Track




              NeurIPS 2020 NLC2CMD Competition:
          Translating Natural Language to Bash Commands

Mayank Agarwal                                                              mayank.agarwal@ibm.com
IBM Research
Tathagata Chakraborti                                                               tchakra2@ibm.com
IBM Research
Quchen Fu                                                                 quchen.fu@vanderbilt.edu
Vanderbilt University
David Gros                                                                          dgros@ucdavis.edu
University of California, Davis
Xi Victoria Lin∗                                                                   victorialin@fb.com
Facebook AI
Jaron Maene                                                                   jaron.maene@gmail.com
KU Leuven
Kartik Talamadupula                                                            krtalamad@us.ibm.com
IBM Research
Zhongwei Teng                                                       zhongwei.teng@vanderbilt.edu
Vanderbilt University
Jules White                                                              jules.white@vanderbilt.edu
Vanderbilt University


Editors: Hugo Jair Escalante and Katja Hofmann
                                               Abstract
      The NLC2CMD Competition hosted at NeurIPS 2020 aimed to bring the power of natural
      language processing to the command line. Participants were tasked with building models
      that can transform descriptions of command line tasks in English to their Bash syntax.
      This is a report on the competition with details of the task, metrics, data, attempted
      solutions, and lessons learned.
      Keywords: Natural Language Processing, Bash, Programming, Code, Competition


1. Introduction
The command line interface (CLI) has long been an invaluable computing tool due to its ex-
pressiveness, efficiency, and extensibility. While graphical user interfaces (GUIs) struggle to
keep up with the fast changing features in software development (for example, consider the
time it took to move from Docker to Kubernetes in cloud platforms), CLIs provide a univer-
sal interface to almost any software feature via a combination of text-based commands and
command arguments. Natural language based CLI interaction, if successful over a variety
of command line tasks, has the potential to transform the way we interact with different
 ∗
     Work done while the author was at Salesforce Research.


c 2021 M. Agarwal, T. Chakraborti, Q. Fu, D. Gros, X.V. Lin, J. Maene, K. Talamadupula, Z. Teng & J. White.
NeurIPS 2020 NLC2CMD Competition:Translating Natural Language to Bash Commands




Figure 1: An example of a command line interface with natural language support, as de-
          scribed in Agarwal et al. (2020). Note that for normal Bash commands, execution
          proceeds as usual, while for tasks described in natural language, an NLC2CMD plu-
          gin intervenes (shown in green) with the translation of the described task into
          the corresponding command line syntax.



operating systems and cloud platforms, lowering the barriers to entry and increasing the
accessibility of compute resources across the planet.
     The NLC2CMD competition revolved around the simple use case: translating natural
language (NL) descriptions of command line tasks to their corresponding command line
syntax, thereby making the CLIs more accessible and more intuitive to use1 . We compiled
a large dataset consisting of the English (natural language) descriptions of tasks the users
want to perform and their corresponding Bash2 invocations (§ 4). The participants needed
to build models and systems (§ 6) that generated the correct Bash command given new
and unseen natural language invocations. To better measure the progress of this task and
facilitate cross comparison of the submitted systems, we proposed new accuracy and energy
efficiency metrics (§ 5). We also conducted a careful analysis of the winning systems and
shared our suggestions for future work (§ 7).

2. Task Description
The NLC2CMD task aims to translate the natural language description (nlc) of a command
line task to its corresponding Bash command (c). The algorithm (A) is expected to model
the top-k Bash translations given the natural language description.

                         A : nlc 7→ { p | p = hc, δi };       |A(nlc)| ≤ k
    Each prediction from the model is a set of Bash commands along with the confidence δ
(0.0 ≤ δ ≤ 1.0) in its prediction. In practice, this confidence estimation can be used to filter
1. A former position paper by the competition organizers on bringing the power of AI to the CLIs can be
   found in Agarwal et al. (2020).
2. https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/


                                                 303
NeurIPS 2020 NLC2CMD Competition:Translating Natural Language to Bash Commands




out uncertain predictions, and it is factored into the competition evaluation. By default,
the confidence score is set to 1.0, indicating full confidence in a model’s prediction.

3. NLC2CMD: Competition Overview
The competition began in July 2020 and concluded at the end of November 2020. It was
divided into three phases: Training, Validation, and Test. The Validation phase ran in
October and the Test Phase ran in November. A total of 20 teams from around the world
signed up for the competition by sending in a signed Terms & Conditions document - a
pre-requisite for entry. Among these, 13 teams remained active through the end of the first
phase. 9 teams went through the end of the Test Phase, and 6 of them open-sourced their
solutions. The teams were allowed a maximum of 100 submissions in the first two phases,
and a maximum of 10 submissions for the final phase; there were also limits on the number
of daily submissions (5 for the first 2 phases, and 1 for the final phase). We hosted the
competition using the EvalAI platform (Yadav et al., 2019).3

4. Data
4.1. NL2Bash
The NL2Bash dataset is a supervised natural language to Bash command dataset collected
by Lin et al. (2018). It contains approximately 10k pairs of natural language task invocations
and their corresponding command line syntax, covering over 100 commonly used Bash
utilities.

4.2. Tellina Query Log
Tellina (Lin et al., 2017) is a recurrent neural network based architecture to translate nat-
ural language utterances to Bash commands. The system is also available as a web-based
application to the public at large, and has been collecting data of natural language utter-
ances from its users for quite some time now4 . We collected nearly 1000 natural language
utterances recorded from users’ interactions with the Tellina system. Three programmers
with prior Bash experience then annotated these collected examples: either through their
own background knowledge, or by referring to the manual pages, or by searching over the
Internet for guidance. Through this process, we generated multiple ground truth labels for
a majority of the examples in this dataset; this was beneficial for the evaluation process
since the metric used in the competition (Section 5.1.3) uses the maximum score over the
predicted and the ground truth commands. Once this dataset was annotated, we filtered
the data samples through the data filtering process described in section 4.4. After filtering,
we were able to add around 700 examples to the NLC2CMD evaluation dataset.

4.3. NLC2CMD Data Collection Track
In addition to the main challenge of building an algorithm to translate a natural language
utterance to a Bash command, we also ran a parallel data-collection track to collect natural
3. https://evalai.cloudcv.org/web/challenges/challenge-page/674/overview
4. http://tellina.rocks/


                                             304
NeurIPS 2020 NLC2CMD Competition:Translating Natural Language to Bash Commands




language to bash command pairs. These pairs were supplemental to the previous 2 data
sources, and were collected through a web interface hosted on the competition website.
Participants in this challenge were asked to submit as many pairs of English invocations
and Bash commands as they wished. 21 participants from industry and academia submitted
over 120 examples in this challenge. These pairs were filtered using the same process as
used for the Tellina dataset, and the resulting examples (nearly 100) were part of the final
phase of the challenge.

4.4. Data partitions and pipeline
Data filtering We validate and filter the data collected through NL2Bash, Tellina Query
Log, and the NLC2CMD Data Collection Track using the Bash parser used throughout the
competition5 . For each data sample pair of natural language invocation and its correspond-
ing Bash command text, we parse the Bash command text through the parser to get its
abstract syntax tree (AST) and then reconstruct the command text from the AST. We
validate that the reconstructed command matches exactly to the original command text.
This process ensures that any text which is not a valid Bash command – by either specifying
a utility which is not part of the parser vocabulary, incorrect flags for the corresponding
utility, or incorrect syntax altogether – is identified and omitted from the dataset. We also
ensure that for a given command’s text, all the utilities included in it are part of the Ubuntu
18.04 LTS command set6 . Any command text that includes any utility that is not in the
Ubuntu utility set is omitted.
Training For training, participants were provided with a filtered version of the NL2Bash
(Lin et al., 2018) dataset, which is a supervised dataset of natural language descriptions
mapped to their respective Bash commands. Participants were also provided with a version
of the manual (man) pages for Ubuntu 18.04 LTS7 to enable models to utilize information
available in these man pages to learn and suggest commands unseen in the structured
dataset. In addition to these two datasets, participants were free to use any freely-available
dataset that they deemed fit to train their models, conditioned upon its disclosure and
release to all competitors and the general public before the final stage of the competition.
Validation and Test We used a combination of data collected from sources described
previously in this section to create the evaluation dataset. We create the test set for the first
phase of the competition by randomly sampling 1000 data samples from a filtered version
of the complete NL2Bash dataset (Lin et al., 2018) (explained in detail in the Data filtering
paragraph above). This data split is different from that of the original NL2Bash data
release; however, there may be some overlap in the data samples. The primary difference
between the two datasets lies in the different choices of random seed and the number of test
examples sampled.
    In the subsequent phases, we add new data samples to the previous phase test set to
create the test set of the following phase. 324 new data samples from the Tellina query log
were added to create the the validation phase test set. To create the test set of the final
5. https://github.com/IBM/clai/tree/nlc2cmd/utils/bashlint
6. http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/bionic/en/
7. http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/bionic/en/



                                              305
NeurIPS 2020 NLC2CMD Competition:Translating Natural Language to Bash Commands




(a) Test dataset sizes (b) Most frequent utilities: val- (c) Most frequent utilities: test
    across the 3 phases    idation phase dataset             phase dataset
              Figure 2: Dataset characteristics in the NLC2CMD competition


phase of the NLC2CMD competition, 543 additional data samples from the Tellina query log
and the NLC2CMD challenge were added to the test set of the validation phase. Through
the different phases of the competition, the size of the evaluation dataset grew significantly.
With the addition of data from the Tellina query log and the NLC2CMD challenge, the eval-
uation data size increased from 1000 samples in the training phase to over 1800 in the
test phase (see figure 2(a)).
    To validate for algorithms’ performances on Bash utilities not seen in the training data,
we also added utilities which were not part of the NL2Bash training data in the test phase
of the competition. While there were 101 utilities in the first phase of the competition, 27
new utilities were added through the Tellina data and the NLC2CMD challenge to bring the
total to 128 utilities in the final phase. A distribution of the count of the top 15 utilities in
the validation and test phase data samples is displayed in Figures 2(b) and 2(c) respectively.
    We note that due to: (i) the random subsampling of the NL2Bash dataset to create
the test set for the first phase of the competition; and (ii) the addition of data samples
to this existing set to create the test set for subsequent phases – there is a possibility of
algorithms overfitting by training on the publicly available NL2Bash dataset and inflating
their scores. However, we decided on this format for the following reasons: a) NL2Bash is
the only dataset available for the specific NLC2CMD task; since the other two data sources
(Tellina query log, and NLC2CMD data challenge) weren’t available right at the beginning of
the competition, we had to utilize NL2Bash to create the initial test set in order to adhere
to the competition schedule; and b) Adding samples to the initial test set to create the test
set for the subsequent phases (instead of switching completely to the newly collected data
samples) allowed us to control and prevent the underlying data distribution from shifting
significantly between competition phases.

5. Metrics
We evaluated submissions to the NLC2CMD competition on two metrics: Accuracy, and En-
ergy Consumption. In the following, we delve deeper into the specifics and the philosophy
behind using two metrics to evaluate submissions to the competition.




                                              306
NeurIPS 2020 NLC2CMD Competition:Translating Natural Language to Bash Commands




5.1. Accuracy
In this section, we first discuss existing metrics used in prior work and their shortcomings in
evaluating a structured prediction task such as NLC2CMD. We subsequently discuss a metric
that verifies by execution. This metric fixes many shortcomings of the existing accuracy
metrics, but requires considerable effort to implement. We briefly discuss the requirements
to make this evaluation metric practical. Finally, we describe the metric we proposed for
the competition.

5.1.1. Existing metrics
Full Command Accuracy: Accuracy metric or measuring exact match between the
generated and reference sample has precedence in code generation research (Yin and Neubig,
2017; Chen et al., 2018; Fu et al., 2019). Specifically, the Full Command Accuracy metric was
utilized by Lin et al. (2017, 2018) in their work on synthesizing bash commands given their
natural language descriptions. The full command accuracy AcckF is defined as the percentage
of test instances for which a correct full command is ranked k or above in the model output.
Because this metric measures the correctness of the complete command – command utility,
utility flags, and the command ordering – it has a stricter notion of correctness. However,
since Bash is a turing-complete language (Wikibooks, 2020), verifying the equivalence of
two commands is undecidable (Lin et al., 2018); and therefore the chance of accurately
measuring the correctness of the predicted command depends on how exhaustive the test
set is. Theoretically, if the test set contains all the possible ways of achieving the task, this
metric would accurately measure the predictors performance. However, this can be difficult,
which is why the work of Lin et al. (2018) relied on human evaluations along with using
this metric to measure their system performance.
BLEU score: BLEU score (Papineni et al., 2002) is a widely-used automatic machine
translation evaluation metric that serves as an alternative to the otherwise time-consuming
and expensive human evaluation. BLEU score is computed by comparing the n-grams of the
candidate translations with the n-grams of the reference translation. We refer the reader
to the work of Gatt and Krahmer (2018) for a detailed survey of evaluation methodologies
in natural language generation and their characteristics.
    Tran et al. (2019) study the effectiveness of using the BLEU score to evaluate the task
of code migration, and conclude that the metric is not effective in reflecting the semantic
accuracy of translated code. Additionally, they found a weak correlation between the BLEU
score and human judgement of the semantic correctness of the translated code. Similar
results were observed by Lin et al. (2017) in their study of using the BLEU score for the
task of converting natural language to its corresponding bash syntax, and by Allamanis
et al. (2018) in their broader work on the intersecting research areas of Machine Learning,
Programming Languages, and Software Engineering.
Template Accuracy: The Full Command Accuracy matches the complete predicted
command with the corresponding reference commands to measure the performance of the
predictor. The full command includes the individual utilities that compose the command,
along with their flags, arguments, and the ordering of the utilities in case the command
is a composition of multiple utilities. While ideally it is desirable to predict the complete


                                              307
NeurIPS 2020 NLC2CMD Competition:Translating Natural Language to Bash Commands




command, in the normal development workflow, predicting the correct utilities and their
flags is of greater importance than predicting the arguments as well. This is evidenced by
the current user workflow, where the user searches manual pages, online forums, etc. for a
way to accomplish their task, and then fills in their desired arguments once they’ve identi-
fied the appropriate utilities. Specifying the entire arguments is sometimes inconvenient for
the user as well – consider specifying the full paths of files in case the user wants to move
files from one location to another, when asking for only the utility is much easier in this
case. To accommodate for this relative importance, Lin et al. (2018) propose the Template
accuracy metric AcckT . This is defined to be the percentage of test instances for which a
correct command template is ranked k or above in the model output (i.e., ignoring incorrect
arguments), and is also calculated via human evaluation (Lin et al., 2018).

5.1.2. Verification by Execution
Since Bash is a turing-complete language, verifying the equivalence of two commands to
achieve the same task is undecidable (Churchill et al., 2019). Consider a simple case of
listing all the files under a folder recursively. The 3 commands tree /dirpath/; ls -R
/dirpath/; and find /dirpath -print all achieve the desired purpose but use different
utilities. With the same utility, the commands could still differ by using different sets of
flags. To account for such variation, we could execute the predicted command and the
reference in a controlled shell environment and match the pre and post-execution outputs
of the two commands8 . A similar evaluation setup (verification by execution) is utilized
by Lachaux et al. (2020) in their work on translation between programming languages; by
Zhong et al. (2017) and Zhong et al. (2020) when mapping natural language to SQL queries;
and by Guu et al. (2017) in their work on mapping natural language to logical forms in a
synthetic setting.
     The verification by execution setup requires a sand-boxed Bash environment where
commands can run in a reproducible manner and without interference from other processes
running on the machine. The test data is preferably command-specific to effectively rule
out false positives. In addition, it is challenging to measure and compare the side effects9
of the commands.

5.1.3. NLC2CMD metric
Having introduced existing accuracy metrics and their drawbacks in Section 5.1.1, we pro-
pose a metric that: a) ignores arguments in the predicted commands; b) considers the order
of the utilities in case of piped commands; and c) penalizes predicting utility flags in excess
of those defined in the ground truth commands.
    We define U (c)i to be the ith utility in a command (c), and F (u) to be a set of flags for
a utility u. Given the predicted command Cpred and the reference command Cref , we first
define the flag score SFi to be:
8. This approach tends to overestimate accuracy, as a command and the reference may execute to the
   same results in a particular test environment while being semantically different. For example, if a
   directory contains only .txt files, rm . and rm . -name ‘‘*.txt’’ will both leave an empty folder
   after execution. Zhong et al. (2020) mitigates this issue by testing the programs in multiple environments,
   thereby reducing the chance of a false positive.
9. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Side_effect_(computer_science)


                                                    308
NeurIPS 2020 NLC2CMD Competition:Translating Natural Language to Bash Commands




                    1                                                                                
 SFi (Cpred , Cref ) = 2 × |F (U (Cpred )i ) ∩ F (U (Cref )i )| − |F (U (Cpred )i ) ∪ F (U (Cref )i )| (1)
                   N
                                                        
    Here, N = max |F (U (Cpred )i ))|, |F (U (Cref )i )| . The flag score rewards flags common
to both the predicted and the reference command, but also penalizes excess predicted flags.
    The normalized score for a single prediction p = hCpred , δi is then computed as:

             X δ                               1                                 
                                                    i
 S(p) = max      × I[U (Cpred )i = U (Cref )i ]× 1+SF −I[U (Cpred )i 6= U (Cref )i ] (2)
        Cref   T                                2
                i∈[1,T ]
                                          
   Here, T = max |U (Cpred )|, |U (Cref )| , and I[·] is the indicator function.
   Since the algorithm A(nlc) predicts more than one candidate command to the natural
language query nlc, the overall score is computed as:
                         (
                           maxp∈A(nlc) S(p),            if ∃p∈A(nlc) such that S(p) > 0
        Score(A(nlc)) =       1     P                                                   (3)
                           |A(nlc)|  p∈A(nlc) S(p), otherwise

    This scoring mechanism incentivizes the precision and recall of the correct utility and
its flags, weighted by the algorithm’s reported confidence.10 The reasons for choosing this
metric are many: 1) It can be evaluated within the the timeline of a competition at a
conference;11 2) Synthesizing the full command is a more difficult task and we wanted to
start from a simpler option given this is the first time the competition is running; 3) In some
cases it is challenging to fully specify the command arguments in the natural language; 4) A
system that suggests a command with argument placeholders can be useful since once the
command structure is known, the user may fill the missing argument values in an interactive
manner with an AI assistant on the terminal like CLAI (Agarwal et al., 2020). We provide
examples illustrating the behavior of this metric under different ground truth and predicted
command variations in appendix A.

5.2. Energy Efficiency
Evaluating and mitigating the energy consumption of deep learning models has recently
gained traction in the research community. Li et al. (2016) studied the energy efficiency of
10. Note that an initial version of the metric naively computed the maximum score for the top-k predictions
    from the algorithm. Since the metric considers both the predicted command as well as the confidence
    measure, it was possible to artificially clamp the metric to zero instead of its normal range of [−1, 1].
    This could be achieved by predicting the last of the k commands with 0.0 confidence, thus ensuring a
    score of 0.0 for the final prediction; and clamping the overall metric minimum to 0.0 as well. This was
    fixed by modifying the aggregation of the individual scores of the metric by using a max operator only if
    at least one of the prediction scores is greater than 0; and an average otherwise.
11. While similar competitions have looked to implement unit tests for the test data before (Hendrycks
    et al., 2021), for us, the test set was not fixed apriori but only determined during the course of the
    NLC2CMD Challenge; this, along with the fact that the testing scheme for the competition without
    arguments leads to commands that are under-determined, meant that the simulation option was out of
    scope.



                                                    309
NeurIPS 2020 NLC2CMD Competition:Translating Natural Language to Bash Commands




convolutional neural networks, while more recently, the work of Strubell et al. (2019) eval-
uated the energy consumption of developing deep learning models for NLP tasks. Strubell
et al. (2019)’s findings suggested that the CO2 emissions from training an NLP pipeline
(with tuning and experimentation) is greater than the average yearly emission of an Amer-
ican life. In the same spirit, the work of Schwartz et al. (2019) distinguish between Red AI
and Green AI. Red AI refers to the pursuit of obtaining state-of-the-art results in accuracy
(or related measures) through the use of massive computational power. In contrast, Green
AI refers to AI research that yields novel results without increasing computational cost,
and ideally reducing it. The authors analyzed 60 randomly sampled papers from the ACL
201812 , CVPR 201913 , and NeurIPS 201814 conferences to find that a large majority of pa-
pers target accuracy or some related measure, and thus, Schwartz et al. (2019) advocate for
making efficiency a research criteria along with accuracy to make AI greener. Their mea-
sures of efficiency include carbon emissions, electricity usage, among others. Since then,
Lottick et al. (2019), Lacoste et al. (2019), and Henderson et al. (2020) have proposed tools
to help researchers evaluate and report the energy consumption requirements of their work.
Additionally, recent initiatives such as the SustainNLP15 workshop at EMNLP 202016 have
focused on encouraging development of efficient NLP models, and providing simpler model
architectures and empirical justification of model complexity.
    While the aforementioned work focuses on the energy consumption of models during
the training phase, with the deployment of these models, their energy consumption in infer-
ence phase can outweigh their training cost over time. This dichotomy between the energy
cost during training in machine learning research and the energy cost during inference in
production systems, and the need to also measure the inference energy cost is highlighted
by Henderson et al. (2020) and Bender et al. (2021). In accordance with the recommenda-
tions of Green AI and other recent work in the energy-efficient machine learning research,
we measure the energy consumption of submissions to the NLC2CMD challenge using the
experiment-impact-tracker17 library by Henderson et al. (2020). The Efficiency track at
the NLC2CMD competition was run in parallel to the Accuracy track and aimed to award the
most energy-efficient model amongst the top-5 scoring (by accuracy) models.

6. Competing Solutions
Table 1 provides a snapshot of the NLC2CMD competition leaderboard at the end of the
final (test) phase: a total of 6 teams/entries and 2 baselines made it to this stage.18 The
leaderboard captured the accuracy score, energy consumption, and latency of the entries.
We also provide examples of the natural language invocation along with the ground truth
command and the commands predicted by the top 3 teams in appendix B. In the following,
we provide brief overviews of the techniques adopted by these entries.
12. https://acl2018.org/
13. https://cvpr2019.thecvf.com/
14. https://nips.cc/Conferences/2018
15. https://sites.google.com/view/sustainlp2020/
16. https://2020.emnlp.org/
17. https://github.com/Breakend/experiment-impact-tracker
18. Note that the Tellina was used “as is” for the competition as a baseline and was not retrained for the
    new metric so as to not make the competition task (running for the first time) too hard for participants.


                                                    310
NeurIPS 2020 NLC2CMD Competition:Translating Natural Language to Bash Commands




    Team Name       Accuracy Score   Energy (Joules)   Latency (sec)      IR-Baseline Variation   Accuracy Score

     Magnum             0.532             0.484           0.709           Tf-IDF Raw                  0.361
      Hubris            0.513            12.037           14.870          + AInix Data                0.404
         Jb             0.499             2.604           3.142           + Prune Duplicates          0.413
      AICore            0.489            0.252            0.423           + Normalize NL              0.429
  AINixCLAISimple       0.429             N.A.            0.010           + Adjust Conf.              0.472
    coinse-team         0.163           343.577           0.452
       Tellina          0.138             2.969            3.242
                                                                       Table 2: Results from simple IR
Table 1: Final leaderboard for the NLC2CMD competi-                             baselines. Additions to
         tion, showing the accuracy score for the final                         the raw predictor are re-
         (test) phase, along with the energy consumed                           tained cumulatively top-
         and latency for every invocation.                                      to-bottom.


6.1. TF/IDF and Proposed New Baselines
Team AINixCLAISimple briefly explored some simple baselines on the task. Exploration
of simple baselines might evaluate if the metrics or task are too easily “gameable”. This
team did not find a simple technique that could achieve the highest accuracy score, but did
vastly outperform the original host Tellina baseline at very high efficiency.
    The primary explored approach was an information retrieval (IR) approach using Tf-IDF
rankings. Several variations were explored (Table 2). In all variations the NL-CMD training
pairs were first indexed using the Vec4IR package (Galke et al., 2017). In the simplest
variation (Tf-IDF Raw) the team took the evaluation utterances, queried the training, and
returned the top 5 highest Tf-IDF matches each with a predicted confidence of 1.0. This
approach had a score of 0.361, which is approximately 2.6x higher than the Tellina baseline.
    Several additions were made. The inclusion of the AInix Archie data19 as training data
boosts the score to 0.404. Additionally, the team notes there might be duplicates of a
given command in the training data (especially considering the constant arguments of the
command are ignored). Because the metric takes a max, it is not reasonable to include
duplicates in the five outputs. A gain of about 0.01 is achieved by pruning duplicates,
instead taking the next ranked retrieved commands, up to five unique commands. A further
0.016 points can be gained by applying some string matching heuristics to normalize NL
tokens which appear to be constants (file names, numbers, IP addresses, etc).
    Finally, an approach was used to lower points deductions on difficult NL utterances. A
logistic regression model was fit to predict the probability the prediction would result in
a positive score. It used features like the Tf-IDF score, number of flags in the retrieved
command, and number of utilities. These logistic regressions were used in combination with
the estimated probability that all predictions will score negatively in order to potentially
lower the outputted confidence to be less than 1.0. This resulted in a 0.043 point gain.
    This team also explored a method of “optimally diverse picking”. This was based off
the observation that the metric considered the maximum score, so it might be optimal to
return a diverse range of commands in the hopes at least one receives a positive score.
Various approaches were explored for optimizing pick diversity, but it was found that when
paired the Tf-IDF model with poorly calibrated score estimates, this approach did not help
performance. A better underlying model might make the approach more useful.
19. https://github.com/DNGros/ai-nix-kernal-dataset-archie-json



                                                        311
NeurIPS 2020 NLC2CMD Competition:Translating Natural Language to Bash Commands




    The best performing model under the Tf-IDF approach achieved an accuracy score of
0.472.20 The latency was 10ms or less, and the energy use was low enough that the measure-
ment tool errored out. This model vastly outperforms the host neural baseline, and comes
within 12% of the best performing model. On top of the efficiency and simplicity benefits,
the team notes that this approach has UX advantages compared to the Seq2Seq models,
as retrieval-based NL2Bash models are able to provide exemplar-based explanations (Gros,
2019). This can help users reason about the reliability of a given system prediction.

6.2. Transformer with Beam Search
Team Magnum achieved an accuracy score of 0.532 on the leader board, which is the current
state-of-the-art on the NLC2CMD challenge. The final model is an ensemble of 5 separately-
trained transformer (Vaswani et al., 2017) models consisting of 6 layers with Beam Search
enabled. Team Magnum used the following key strategies in their model:
   1. When Bash commands were parsed into syntax trees, the arguments (parameters)
      were replaced with their generic representations for tokenization. As a result, the
      word vocabulary size was reduced from 7,070 words to 719. The placeholder unk was
      filtered out for better usability.
   2. Scores in the beam search were produced using an approximation21 for confidence due
      to the high correlation observed between correct predictions and high beam scores.
   3. A variety of combinations of hybrid encoders and decoders were tested. Prior re-
      search (Tang et al., 2018) indicates hybrid encoder-decoder architectures have poten-
      tially better performance in certain NLP problems. For example, RNN encoders show
      better performance on conditional language modeling tasks while Transformer models
      are better at feature extraction (Tang et al., 2018).
    The results show that in the NLC2CMD challenge, using a Transformer as both an en-
coder and decoder performs best in terms of accuracy, while an RNN as the decoder can
reduce training and inference time (50% less inference time). The empirical advantages of
a Transformer over an RNN can be attributed to the self-attention of the Transformer that
reduces locality bias and the model parallelism that allows for more efficient GPU-based
computation (Vaswani et al., 2017).

6.3. Fine-tuned GPT-2 in ensemble
Team Hubris fine-tuned pre-trained transformer models on the NLC2CMD task, given their
recent dominance in NLP tasks, and machine translation in particular. More specifically,
the GPT-2 architecture was chosen (Radford et al., 2019), partially inspired by the fact that
its larger incarnation GPT-3 had shown indications22 of being able to perform NLC2CMD in a
few-shot setting. Furthermore, the GPT models are pre-trained on a diverse set of sources,
in contrast to models with a more specialized sequence to sequence architecture like T5
(Raffel et al., 2019), which did not have instance pre-trained on both natural language and
code, at time of writing.
20. Note, due to participant user error, the “+ Adjusted Conf” model failed to upload to the evaluation
    server; thus the scoreboard
                               reflects a model similar to the “+ Normalized NL” model.
21. Confidencei = eBeamScore
                      i         /2, 2 ≤ i ≤ 5
22. https://beta.openai.com/?app=productivity&example=4_2_0



                                                 312
NeurIPS 2020 NLC2CMD Competition:Translating Natural Language to Bash Commands




    As the goal of the competition was template prediction, and not full command predic-
tion, the data was pre-processed to replace concrete arguments with dummy tokens. The
NL2Bash dataset was also augmented with heuristically mined data from stack-overflow
questions and some minor sources like the AInix project (Gros, 2019).
    To improve performance, two models of differing size and pre-training (to decrease corre-
lation) predicted the commands in ensemble. Due to the nature of the metric, a high degree
of diversity in the 5 provided output commands was greatly desirable. However, conven-
tional beam-search generated highly correlated commands, while sample-based methods
entailed too sharp a drop in the syntactic coherence of the commands. The issue was re-
solved by letting the two different models generate commands using a higher number of
beams. The final commands were selected from the resulting set by a heuristic algorithm
that tried to maximize the minimal word distance between individual commands.
    As the confidences given by the GPT-2 models were not calibrated and usually over-
confident, the Hubris team just gave every command confidence 1.

6.4. Multi-Step Pipelines
One popular approach considered by multiple entries and teams was the notion of multi-step
pipelines, which ensembled two different models for two very distinct purposes. The key in-
sight behind this split was the shared observation that a given instance of the NLC2CMD task
essentially consists of two different decisions: predicting the best utility for accomplishing
that task, and then figuring out the right set of flags to use. Team jb (JetBrains) (Litvinov
et al., 2020) accomplished this by first using a classifier to predict the utility and set up a
context; and then using a seq2seq transformer (Vaswani et al., 2017) with that context to
predict the entire command. Team coinse (Kang and Yoon, 2020) took a hierarchical ap-
proach: their hierarchical decoder, inspired by prior work on the two-stage image generating
StackGAN (Zhang et al., 2017), consists of a utility predictor as well as a flag predictor.

7. Discussion
A valuable outcome of a public competition is to arrive at a better understanding of the
nuances of the task and find better ways to solve and measure it. This section compiles
lessons learned and discussion with participants during the course of the challenge; and
with the audience at the NeurIPS 2020 Competition Session and Virtual Room.

7.1. Metrics Revision
7.1.1. Suggested Alternatives for Accuracy Measurement
The following is a brief recount of the various suggestions we received during the conference
for enhancing the accuracy metric in future iterations.
Semantic Match This involves making the parser more intelligent to be able to match
the semantics of a task rather than the exact command and its flags. This is is not only to
do with the fact that the same task can be performed using several different utilities, but
also in different ways using the same utility: e.g. exec and pipes on a find command.



                                             313
NeurIPS 2020 NLC2CMD Competition:Translating Natural Language to Bash Commands




Restricted Coverage The current top performing algorithms on the NLC2CMD task
are still quite low for deployment in real applications. However, the frequency of commands
in the data (derived from real world sources) does follow a heavily tailed distribution. This
brings into question whether one should even look for coverage. One reason we had the
entire set of commands in the test set for the competition was to challenge algorithms to
go beyond the NL2Bash data and include a mixture of examples as well as structured data
like manual pages to help generalize (though no final participants made use of the man
pane data). But a valid argument can be made in favor of reducing the coverage so that
algorithms are more accurate over a more restricted and frequently used set of commands
than less accurate over many more commands.
    This also reduces the problem of data sparsity. Conventional ML methods might struggle
on the full problem as the amount of data available for some bash commands is very low. A
similar approach was taken by the text-to-SQL community where the popular benchmark
datasets only include a subset of SQL grammar that covers the most practical use cases (Yu
et al., 2018). In addition, Gros (2019) attempted to focus on a narrower subset of Bash
commands while attempting to get usable accuracies.
IR-based Metrics We can also look at more standard scores like mean reciprocal rank
(MRR) and mean average precision (MAP) to further streamline this, especially in relation
to scoring the top-K response effectively. MRR has been adapted for other NL2Code tasks
like CodeSearchNet (Husain et al., 2019). In case of multiple valid outputs, there are often
preferences. For example, the phrase “list my files here” it is valid to do: ls, ls -l, ls
-la, ls -lta, etc. where the later ones are likely less preferable. Going forward, it will be
interesting to look at IR metrics that can deal with such situations where with multiple valid
results, some are more conventional than the others. Moreover, while the current setup was
designed purely on consideration of how the orchestration layer in CLAI works (c.f. Section
3.2 from Agarwal et al. (2020)), it is unclear how the confidence marked accuracy scores
will play out in practice when multiple choices are presented to the end user, It might make
more sense to instead penalize suggestions in sequence since that is how the user is probably
going to try them out. Baking in patterns of interaction in the evaluation model would be
an interesting addition to the evaluation metric.
Session Score Another interesting idea that came up in terms of measuring accuracy
in the context of user interactions was to measure accuracy over multiple interactions in a
session instead of averaging over several independent translations. This gives us the ability
to measure how algorithms behave over time.

     Adaptability One particular type of evolution we can look for is how algorithms
     calibrate themselves based on whether they are getting their translations right or
     which ones the user is picking up on, and thereby adjusting their confidences or even
     their suggestions over time.

     Fast (Re-)Training Another measure of interest here is a “fast training” measure i.e.
     how easy it is for the user to add a new command or new phrasing, and be confident
     that the system will be able to incorporate the new knowledge quickly and/or will not
     mess up again in the future on the same task. Typical deep learning models might
     struggle with this lifelong learning as it requires care to avoid catastrophic forgetting

                                             314
NeurIPS 2020 NLC2CMD Competition:Translating Natural Language to Bash Commands




      when adding a new task (Chen and Liu, 2018). Thus non-parametric retrieval-based
      models may have advantages.

Calibration of Penalties Continuing the theme of changing penalties of misclassification
based on user feedback or continued misclassification, there are couple of other interesting
factors at play here as well.

      Statefulness of commands A command that changes the state of the machine has
      much more impact on being wrong as compared to those that do not. This should
      affect the penalty of a wrong suggestion.

      Command injection and privacy concerns A curious case of building algorithms
      off data is the ability to inject hacks into the system by manipulating the data. GPT-
      3, for example, has some very severe privacy and security concerns of this type based
      on the data it brings up Carlini et al. (2020). For the Bash, examples of this already
      exist in terms of hacked aliases Zhong (2021); Shah (2020). While it is harder to
      evaluate this in the scope of a competition, looking out explicitly for state changes
      may serve as a first line of defense.

Full Text Match and Underdetermined Invocations While we focused only on tem-
plated match in this competition, the full scope of the problem is, of course, a full translation
of the command. This may be a much more challenging task but it may also be more inter-
esting from a longer-term research point of view. The template prediction also elided details
of the command that are more complicated than just paths (e.g. -type f, or regex, some
formatting options, etc). This could mean the generated command is not always useful to
the user – it is not just a matter of filling in the placeholder parameters.
    However, there are additional pitfalls of full text matches of commands beyond just the
increased difficulty of doing it. This is to do with the fact that natural language command
invocations can often be underdetermined. For example, saying “add my username to this
user group” can be translated to the utility and flags with parameters as placeholders but the
full text response to this may also be interpreted as a piped execution that first determines
those parameters, in this case the username. Additionally, oftentimes the user may be
referring to a generic file in which case again, the commands will be underdetermined. This
is something to keep in mind in case there is intent to change the accuracy metric to a full
text match later, since it does change the semantics of the task.

7.1.2. Suggested Alternatives for Energy Measurement
Initially planned as an efficiency track – most easily measured as the average time taken to
make a translation – we later shifted this to an energy or power consumption upon feedback
from NeurIPS reviews. While we ended up using a standard power measurement package
along with a few other competitions at the conference, it has many justifiable concerns.
Latency Attacks on Power Measurement A key problem with measuring power is
that an application can slow down the computation to reduce peak power consumption.
Team Magnum found the energy track in the NLC2CMD competition could be attacked
by spuriously appending sleep functions to suspend the inference process and dramatically

                                              315
NeurIPS 2020 NLC2CMD Competition:Translating Natural Language to Bash Commands




increase inference time. When the inference time is slowed down, the estimated attributable
power draw (mWatts) – the evaluation metric of the energy track – will decrease.
    Instead of measuring power, a solution would be to be shift to measuring total energy
consumption instead, to take into account both time and power. The proposed energy
consumption metric addresses the problems with the attack described above, but it does not
capture an important consideration, which is the user experience of a model that supports
user-interaction with a terminal. For example, once the inference latency falls below a
certain threshold, the latency will be imperceptible to the user and further improvements
will not be as beneficial. A better approach may be to measure energy with a set of non-
linear profiles that incorporate user-perceptible latency in the scoring, as was done in the
CLAI user study (c.f. Appendix 4.5 from Agarwal et al. (2020)).
Significance More importantly, there was a lot of debate during the competition and
at NeurIPS on whether there is any point to measuring energy at all. Arguments against
include the amount of energy consumed itself, and whether we should be spending effort
in measuring training energy instead. In making an accuracy-efficiency trade-off, it is also
necessary to take this holistic view. A wrong command could have costly side effects (like
accidentally removing a folder). Saving a second of human time has a much greater CO2 pay-
off than saving the same CPU time (not to mention that human’s well being). Additionally,
the wrong command might potentially begin a far longer computation. This means that
erring on the side of inefficient models can actually be less energy efficient in the big picture.
    Finally, the efficiency track was primarily focused on power consumption and did not
actually consider the latency measure in isolation. While a shift to an energy measurement
will implicitly take this into account, latency is also the most user-centric metric; i.e. it is
unlikely a user will use use an NLC2CMD service on the shell (versus e.g. StackExchange) if
the latency is too large. Additionally, relying purely on energy measures creates indirection
when trying to identify a problem like a model using excessive memory.

7.2. Other Enhancements
Communicating Explanations One aspect that we did not explore during the compe-
tition was what happens after the Bash command translation is provided to the user – i.e.
explaining the translation to the user. Since users may not be experts in all Bash utilities,
they may not understand how to select the most appropriate translation or the ramifications
of different translations. Explanations of translations could include Bash visualizations of
the AST, for example. One possible option is to employ Back-translation (Edunov et al.,
2018) to convert commands back to natural language to explain the system’s suggestion.
Conversational Interfaces Recent work on Text-to-SQL semantic parsing, such as the
Photon (Zeng et al., 2020) system demonstration, has shown conversational code generation
can help people accomplish tedious tasks using natural language. Conversational interfaces
can be more approachable for average users and also allow users to provide extra information
to correct translations or clarify what they want by providing more context.




                                               316
NeurIPS 2020 NLC2CMD Competition:Translating Natural Language to Bash Commands




8. Conclusion
This concludes a brief post-conference report on the first ever natural language on Bash
competition NLC2CMD @ NeurIPS 2020. Going forward, we will look towards incorporat-
ing the feedback received at the conference, particularly in terms of revising the metric to
take into account a session score with downstream effects and other interaction consider-
ations like latency profiles and sequence of suggestions (as outlined in §7). We were also
delighted to welcome on board some of the participants from the NeurIPS edition to the
NLC2CMD team to help write this report and design the next iteration of the competition.
More details on future iterations can be found at: ibm.biz/nlc2cmd.




                                            317
NeurIPS 2020 NLC2CMD Competition:Translating Natural Language to Bash Commands




References
Mayank Agarwal, Jorge J Barroso, Tathagata Chakraborti, Eli M Dow, Kshitij Fadnis,
 Borja Godoy, and Kartik Talamadupula. CLAI: A Platform for AI Skills on the Command
 Line. arXiv:2002.00762, 2020.
Miltiadis Allamanis, Earl T Barr, Premkumar Devanbu, and Charles Sutton. A Survey of
 Machine Learning for Big Code and Naturalness. ACM Computing Surveys, 2018.
Emily M Bender, Timnit Gebru, Angelina McMillan-Major, and Shmargaret Shmitchell.
 On the Dangers of Stochastic Parrots: Can Language Models Be Too Big? In ACM
 FAccT, 2021.
Nicholas Carlini, Florian Tramer, Eric Wallace, Matthew Jagielski, Ariel Herbert-Voss,
  Katherine Lee, Adam Roberts, Tom Brown, Dawn Song, Ulfar Erlingsson, et al. Extract-
  ing Training Data from Large Language Models. arXiv:2012.07805, 2020.
Xinyun Chen, Chang Liu, and Dawn Song. Tree-to-tree Neural Networks for Program
  Translation. In NeurIPS, 2018.
Zhiyuan Chen and Bing Liu. Lifelong Machine Learning. Synthesis Lectures on Artificial
  Intelligence and Machine Learning, 2018.
Berkeley Churchill, Oded Padon, Rahul Sharma, and Alex Aiken. Semantic program align-
  ment for equivalence checking. In Proceedings of the 40th ACM SIGPLAN Conference on
  Programming Language Design and Implementation, PLDI 2019, page 1027–1040, New
  York, NY, USA, 2019. Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN 9781450367127. doi:
  10.1145/3314221.3314596. URL https://doi.org/10.1145/3314221.3314596.
Sergey Edunov, Myle Ott, M. Auli, and David Grangier. Understanding Back-Translation
  at Scale. In EMNLP, 2018.
Cheng Fu, Huili Chen, Haolan Liu, Xinyun Chen, Yuandong Tian, Farinaz Koushanfar,
 and Jishen Zhao. Coda: An End-to-end Neural Program Decompiler. NeurIPS, 2019.
Lukas Galke, Ahmed Saleh, and Ansgar Scherp. Word Embeddings for Practical Information
  Retrieval. In INFORMATIK, 2017.
Albert Gatt and Emiel Krahmer. Survey of the State of the Art in Natural Language
  Generation: Core Tasks, Applications and Evaluation. Journal of Artificial Intelligence
  Research, 2018.
David Gros. AInix: An Open Platform for Natural Language Interfaces to Shell Commands.
  2019.
Kelvin Guu, Panupong Pasupat, Evan Liu, and Percy Liang. From Language to Programs:
 Bridging Reinforcement Learning and Maximum Marginal Likelihood. In ACL, 2017.
Peter Henderson, Jieru Hu, Joshua Romoff, Emma Brunskill, Dan Jurafsky, and Joelle
  Pineau. Towards the Systematic Reporting of the Energy and Carbon Footprints of
  Machine Learning. arXiv:2002.05651, 2020.

                                          318
NeurIPS 2020 NLC2CMD Competition:Translating Natural Language to Bash Commands




Dan Hendrycks, Steven Basart, Saurav Kadavath, Mantas Mazeika, Akul Arora, Ethan
 Guo, Collin Burns, Samir Puranik, Horace He, Dawn Song, et al. Measuring coding
 challenge competence with apps. arXiv:2105.09938, 2021.

Hamel Husain, Ho-Hsiang Wu, Tiferet Gazit, Miltiadis Allamanis, and Marc Brockschmidt.
 Codesearchnet challenge: Evaluating the state of semantic code search. arXiv:1909.09436,
 2019.

Sungmin Kang and Juyeon Yoon. Hierarchical Decoding of Bash Commands. Technical
  report, 2020.

Marie-Anne Lachaux, Baptiste Roziere, Lowik Chanussot, and Guillaume Lample. Unsu-
 pervised Translation of Programming Languages. arXiv:2006.03511, 2020.

Alexandre Lacoste, Alexandra Luccioni, Victor Schmidt, and Thomas Dandres. Quantifying
  the carbon emissions of machine learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.09700, 2019.

Da Li, Xinbo Chen, Michela Becchi, and Ziliang Zong. Evaluating the Energy Efficiency of
 Deep Convolutional Neural Networks on CPUs and GPUs. In IEEE International Confer-
 ences on Big Data and Cloud Computing (BDCloud), Social Computing and Networking
 (SocialCom), Sustainable Computing and Communications (SustainCom), 2016.

Xi Victoria Lin, Chenglong Wang, Deric Pang, Kevin Vu, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Michael D.
  Ernst. Program synthesis from natural language using recurrent neural networks. Tech-
  nical Report UW-CSE-17-03-01, University of Washington Department of Computer Sci-
  ence and Engineering, 2017.

Xi Victoria Lin, Chenglong Wang, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Michael D. Ernst. NL2Bash:
  A Corpus and Semantic Parser for Natural Language Interface to the Linux Operating
  System. In LREC, 2018.

Denis Litvinov, Gleb Morgachev, Artem Popov, Nikolai Korolev, and Dmitrii Orekhov.
  NLC2CMD Report from JB Team. Technical report, 2020.

Kadan Lottick, Silvia Susai, Sorelle A Friedler, and Jonathan P Wilson. Energy
 Usage Reports: Environmental Awareness as Part of Algorithmic Accountability.
 arXiv:1911.08354, 2019.

Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-Jing Zhu. BLEU: A Method for
  Automatic Evaluation of Machine Translation. In ACL, 2002.

Alec Radford, Jeffrey Wu, Rewon Child, David Luan, Dario Amodei, and Ilya Sutskever.
  Language models are unsupervised multitask learners. OpenAI blog, 2019.

Colin Raffel, Noam Shazeer, Adam Roberts, Katherine Lee, Sharan Narang, Michael
  Matena, Yanqi Zhou, Wei Li, and Peter J Liu. Exploring the Limits of Transfer Learning
  with a Unified Text-to-Text Transformer. arXiv:1910.10683, 2019.

Roy Schwartz, Jesse Dodge, Noah A Smith, and Oren Etzioni. Green AI. arXiv:1907.10597,
  2019.

                                          319
NeurIPS 2020 NLC2CMD Competition:Translating Natural Language to Bash Commands




Shrey Shah. Shellshock – High Voltage, 2020.

Emma Strubell, Ananya Ganesh, and Andrew McCallum. Energy and Policy Considerations
 for Deep Learning in NLP. In ACL, 2019.

Gongbo Tang, Mathias Müller, Annette Rios, and Rico Sennrich. Why Self-Attention?
 A Targeted Evaluation of Neural Machine Translation Architectures. arXiv:1808.08946,
 2018.

Ngoc Tran, Hieu Tran, Son Nguyen, Hoan Nguyen, and Tien Nguyen. Does BLEU score
 work for code migration? In ICPC, 2019.

Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N.
  Gomez, L. Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. Attention is All you Need. arXiv:1706.03762,
  2017.

Wikibooks. Bash shell scripting, 2020.

Deshraj Yadav, Rishabh Jain, Harsh Agrawal, Prithvijit Chattopadhyay, Taranjeet Singh,
  Akash Jain, Shiv Baran Singh, Stefan Lee, and Dhruv Batra. EvalAI: Towards Better
  Evaluation Systems for AI Agents. 2019.

Pengcheng Yin and Graham Neubig. A syntactic neural model for general-purpose code
  generation. arXiv:1704.01696, 2017.

Tao Yu, Rui Zhang, Kai Yang, Michihiro Yasunaga, Dongxu Wang, Zifan Li, James Ma,
  Irene Li, Qingning Yao, Shanelle Roman, Zilin Zhang, and Dragomir R. Radev. Spider:
  A Large-Scale Human-Labeled Dataset for Complex and Cross-Domain Semantic Parsing
  and Text-to-SQL Task. In Ellen Riloff, David Chiang, Julia Hockenmaier, and Jun’ichi
  Tsujii, editors, EMNLP, 2018.

Jichuan Zeng, Xi Victoria Lin, S. Hoi, R. Socher, Caiming Xiong, Michael R. Lyu, and
   Irwin King. Photon: A Robust Cross-Domain Text-to-SQL System. arXiv:2007.15280,
   2020.

Han Zhang, Tao Xu, Hongsheng Li, Shaoting Zhang, Xiaogang Wang, Xiaolei Huang, and
 Dimitris N Metaxas. Stackgan: Text to Photo-realistic Image Synthesis with Stacked
 Generative Adversarial Networks. In ICCV, 2017.

Ruiqi Zhong, Tao Yu, and Dan Klein. Semantic evaluation for text-to-sql with distilled test
 suites. CoRR, abs/2010.02840, 2020. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.02840.

Victor Zhong, Caiming Xiong, and Richard Socher. Seq2sql: Generating Structured Queries
  from Natural Language Using Reinforcement Learning. arXiv:1709.00103, 2017.

Weilin Zhong. Command Injection, 2021.




                                           320
NeurIPS 2020 NLC2CMD Competition:Translating Natural Language to Bash Commands




Appendix A. Examples of proposed metric computation
In this section we look at the behavior of the metric used to score the submissions in the
NLC2CMD competition (section 5.1.3). In Table 3, we provide some example behaviors of the
metric, under different ground truth and predicted command variations.


 1. Parameters are not taken into consideration
 Ground truth           df | grep /dev/disk0s2
 Predicted command df | grep diskpath
 Metric value           1.0 × δ



 2. Order of flags does not matter
 Ground truth            find . -regextype posix-egrep -regex REGEX -type f
 Predicted command find . -type f -regextype posix-egrep -regex REGEX
 Metric value            1.0 × δ



 3. You get negative points if you translate to the wrong utility
 Ground truth           mkdir directory
 Predicted command touch directory
 Metric value           −1.0 × δ



 4. Order of utilities matter
 Ground truth            df --total | tail -n 1
 Predicted command tail -n 1 | df --total
 Metric value            −1.0 × δ



 5. Predicting excessive flags gets negative penalty
 Ground truth            find / -name linux
 Predicted command find / -EXdsx -name linux
 Metric value            0.1666 × δ


              Table 3: Examples of the proposed metric computation and
              its behavior under different ground truth and predicted com-
              mand variations. Here, δ is the confidence predicted along
              with the command by the model.




                                           321
NeurIPS 2020 NLC2CMD Competition:Translating Natural Language to Bash Commands




Appendix B. NLC2CMD Model Outputs
In Table 4, we present some examples from the test set – which was the data partition used
to determine the final leaderboard of the competition. Along with the natural language
invocations, we also present the ground truth command and the first prediction from each
of the top 3 scoring teams – Magnum (section 6.2), Hubris (section 6.3), and jb (section
6.4). We note that during the evaluation, we requested top-5 predictions from each of the
models, and aggregated the score over these 5 predictions. In Table 4 however, we show
only the top prediction (from the 5 requested) from each of these models. From the listed
examples and predictions, we can derive some interesting qualitative insights:

  1. Submitted models are a) able to predict find commands pretty well, and b) prefer
     the find command to solve problems easily solved by other commands (see prompts
     A, B). This is explainable through the dominance of find commands in the training,
     validation, and test sets (see figures 2(b) and 2(c)).

  2. Models do not necessarily possess an adequate understanding of the effects of utility
     flags (see prompts C, D). For example, for prompt C, while the models correctly
     predict the utility (cp), the intended task would not succeed without the use of the
     -R flag.

  3. The ability to successfully operate on the Bash terminal goes beyond the understand-
     ing of utilities and flags. Certain files or directories hold special significance when
     operating on the terminal. In prompt E for example, knowing that the etc/passwd
     file holds the lists of users is critical to fulfilling the corresponding prompt. Models
     currently do not encode this knowledge, and therefore fail to provide a valid response
     to these queries.



 A) Prompt               Find all empty files starting from the current
                         directory and delete them
 Ground truth            find . -type f -empty -print0 | xargs -0 /bin/rm
 Team Magnum             find Path -type f -empty -delete
 Team Hubris             find Path -maxdepth Quantity -type f -empty -delete
 Team jb                 find -type ARG -empty -delete



 B) Prompt               copy "install.txt" file to home folder
 Ground truth            cp "install.txt" "∼/"
 Team Magnum             find Path -name Regex -exec cp File \;
 Team Hubris             find Path -name Regex | xargs -I cp -a
                         --target-directory Directory --parents {}
 Team jb                 find -name ARG | xargs -I ARG cp -a
                         --target-directory ARG --parents



                                            322
NeurIPS 2020 NLC2CMD Competition:Translating Natural Language to Bash Commands




 C) Prompt          copy a folder
 Ground truth       cp -R "string" "string"
 Team Magnum        cp File File
 Team Hubris        cp File File
 Team jb            cd



 D) Prompt          Print the hexadecimal bytes and printable characters
                    of "Hello world"
 Ground truth       echo Hello world | od -t x1 -t c
 Team Magnum        echo Regex Regex Regex | od -t x1 -t c
 Team Hubris        echo -n Regex | od -c
 Team jb            echo -n Regex | od -c



 E) Prompt          list the users on the system
 Ground truth       cat etc/passwd
 Team Magnum        w
 Team Hubris        who | awk Program
 Team jb            who | sed -e ARG



 F) Prompt          list of all open files and the processes that opened
                    them
 Ground truth       lsof
 Team Magnum        ps -e -f | tee File
 Team Hubris        more File
 Team jb            ls -l -t



 G) Prompt          Save the user name in all capitals of the current
                    user to variable "v"
 Ground truth       v=$(whoami | awk ’print toupper($0)’)
 Team Magnum        whoami | awk Program
 Team Hubris        whoami | awk Program
 Team jb            whoami | awk



 I) Prompt          Echo each command before running
 Ground truth       set -x
 Team Magnum        set -x
 Team Hubris        set -x


                                    323
NeurIPS 2020 NLC2CMD Competition:Translating Natural Language to Bash Commands




 Team jb              set -o ARG



 J) Prompt            Change the owner of "process" to "root"
 Ground truth         sudo chown root process
 Team Magnum          chown Regex File
 Team Hubris          chown Regex File english: Change the owner of all
                      ".txt" files in directory tree "/mydir" to "root"
                      using at most 20 files at a time
 Team jb              chown



 K) Prompt            kill application
 Ground truth         ps -A | grep -i "application" | awk ’print $1’ |
                      xargs sudo kill -9
 Team Magnum          kill $( jobs -p )
 Team Hubris          ps -e -f | grep Regex | grep -v Regex | awk Program
 Team jb              yes


            Table 4: Sample data points from the test dataset. The
            natural language prompt along with the ground truth and
            the first prediction (from the 5 requested) from the top 3
            models of the competition are presented in the table.




                                       324
